A good tech read.

"I'm an electrical engineer working on wireless consumer products (radios and antennas), as well as semiconductors. I've worked on wireless devices from 250MHz through 65 GHz. I have 11 granted US patents (3 pending) around wireless communication, wireless product development, antennas, and SAR mitigation (see below).

Wireless consumer products (phones, tablets, notebooks) must pass and international regulatory standard called SAR (Specific Absorption Rate). SAR is the measure of the rate of absorption of RF/microwave energy by the human body. This is measured in the near field, or within mm of human body to antenna where radiating transmit power is highest. After that, electric field energy falls off drastically, depending on frequency, of course. No wireless product can reach the market place if it fails this threshold.

As far as 5G (fifth Generation cellular, not 5GHz) goes, did you know that most 5G frequency bands are ALREADY used in 4G, and some from 3G cellular? Frequencies below 6GHz have been used for years in devices you already use, and have in your home, but you didn't get Corona virus last year, did you? 5G gets its boost in speed in part by combining extra channels. Think of a congested roadway with only two lanes, then it opens to 10 lanes...no more congestion and you can drive faster.

The 5G spectrum consists of spectrum from 600MHz to 6GHz, and the mmWave portion, usually ~28-40GHz (depending on locale). The lower bands propagate through the air much better than higher frequencies, this is just physics. You get better in-building, and material penetration (cellular phone coverage) on networks that operate at the lower frequencies. Antennas that support the lower frequencies (600MHz - 6GHz) propagate (radiate) in usually omni-directional patterns, so you can move about freely without loss of signal. Again, electromagnetic engineering physics.

The mmWave portion of 5G is going to be used primarily for FIXED point to point communication, or back haul scenarios. The spectrum is cleaner (less interference) in these mmWave bands for a few reasons: not many devices working in this range to provide noise or in-band interference, and mmWave energy does not radiate very far at all through the air. The field strength of mmWave frequencies decays exponentially over the air. For this reason, phased array antennas are used to focus the energy into a narrow beam so get it to propagate farther. Again, this is meant for fixed point communication, because of the mmWave limitations - think cell tower to office building, then the mmWave signals are down converted to a band supported by your network provider and phone that is between 600MHz - 6GHz. mmWave frequencies in your phone just isn't efficient for mobile use.

Fun fact: Water molecules resonate at 2.45GHz. Guess what the human body has a LOT of? This is how your microwave oven heats your food, by emitting energy at VERY high power level to resonate the water molecules in your food to heat it. Existing WiFi routers currently operate in two frequency bands: 2.4 - 2.485 GHz, and 5.15 - 5.875 GHz with channel bandwidths from 20MHz to 160MHz (wider the channel = higher throughput). My point being, your WiFi router can operate on a channel frequency that cooks food, but the difference is your oven operates at 1000 watts, where your WiFi router operates less than 1 watt, and the energy is widely dispersed. Also, your oven is enclosed in a metal Faraday cage (grounded), so you don't get blasted.

My point to all of this, is there is so much misinformation and hysteria about 5G cellular, mainly from people who don't understand this extremely complex subject. Knock it off, stop burning towers, spreading conspiratorial misinformation, and scaring people.

EDUCATE YOURSELF before making wild, and hysterical, but baseless claims. The phone in your hand, and the WiFi router in your house have been been saturating you with EM signals daily, for a few decades now.

All that said, are you going to stop using mobile phones, WiFi, and laptops? If you really believe all this conspiracy hype, then that is what you should do."